= amazon-product-advertising-api

== Introduction
A nice rubyish interface to the Amazon Product Advertising API, formerly
known as the Associates Web Service and before that the Amazon E-Commerce
Service.

The basic design philosophy is the 'Principle of least surprise', so it's:
- a dsl that should feel familiar to ruby folk.
- structured generally like the API.

== Prerequisites
It's assumed you're reasonably familiar with Ruby as a language, and the
typical coding patterns and styles employed by the community.

It's also assumed that you're familiar with the API. If not go RTFM for a bit,
it's all pretty straight forward.

== Overview
As mentioned before, the idea behind this is to model the API so that once
you're familiar with this library and the API, you'll find this an easy way to
navigate around it. You should then be able to just refer to the lists of
Operations, Response Groups and Response Elements in the appendices for all
you need to know.

You initiate requests by instantiating classes representing api Operations and
named the same way, i.e. ItemSearch, ItemLookup, etc. The request parameters
are represented by attributes on those objects and can be manipulated as you
wish.  If a parameter is required it'll be required or defaulted on
initialization, but everywhere else we defer to the defaults provided by the
api.

Once setup, you call 'run' on the operation which will send the request and
return a response object (and after that also available as operation.response).

The response has a bit less structure than the request operations. There is no
representation for Response Groups as beyond one level deep there is no clear
pattern for how returned XML is structured (at least not without going down the
route trying to define custom handling for each of them). So, instead we group
the Operations into broad groups which return the same collections of data.
ItemSearch, ItemLookup and SimilarityLookup all return a Items container
element with one or more Item tag in it, etc.

Everything beyond one level deep is done with a recursive sweep instantiating
Element objects as we go.

== Things to know
- Amazon uses a lot of Camel case in their XML, but to suit Ruby / Rails
  conventions attributes, etc are converted to underscore style.
- One gotcha - Response Elements can either be a simple value or a container
  with more elements inside. We recognise this situation by simply comparing
  the parent and child names (plural parent, singular child) though that isn't
  always the pattern so we also look for multiple children of the same name.
  
  That means that some situations might creep through and not work as expected.
  If the parent and child don't follow the same naming convention and there is
  also only one child element you'd find the child would be defined as
  parent.child rather than parent.children.first.
  
  This is a bug and will have to be addressed (probably by making a list of
  container elements to check against).
  
== Having problems?
After running the request uri, returned raw xml and hpricot data will be
available in operation.raw_data and operation.hpricot_data which should tell
you all you need to know about the response.

== Test coverage
There aren't any tests at the moment but I'll try to add some.

For the most part there isn't really all that much to test though as it's all
largely just making http requests, however the XML parsing is quite convoluted
so some tests would be good there to make sure the parsing is following the
intended rules.


= TODO
- Implement the rest of the Operations (Cart*, Customer*, Help, List*, Seller*,
  Tag*, Transaction* and Vehicle*).
- Implement HMAC before the authentication requirement kicks in in August 2009.
- Implement batch and multiple operation requests, abstracted away from the
  user within the dsl.
- Some sort of internal caching mechanism.
- Ability to bind to different IP addresses, in order to circumvent API rate
  limiting.


= Obtaining
The main repository is at github but there is also a rubyforge project.

https://github.com/completelynovel/amazon-product-advertising-api/tree
http://amazon-pa-api.rubyforge.org/


= Credits
Created by Jon Gilbraith, jon@completelynovel.com, while working with
CompletelyNovel.

Contents of support.rb are basically taken and adapted from Rails'
ActiveSupport.
